Freedom from All Adversity
A Sur Offering to Harmful Influences, Obstacle-Makers and Elemental Spirits
by Mipham Rinpoche

Gather roasted barley flour and butter, meat and blood and various other food substances;1 burn
them in a fire and sprinkle them with purifying water. Visualize yourself as Avalokiteśvara
and generate intense compassion towards the objects of focus.
om ah hung | namah sarwa tathagata awalokité | om sambhara sambhara hung
oṃ āh hūṃ | namaḥ sarva tathāgata avalokite | oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ.
Recite seven times.
deshyin shekpa rinchen mang la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata Bountiful Riches.
deshyin shekpa zuk dzé dampa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata Sublimely Handsome.
deshyin shekpa ku jam lé la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata Unbounded Body.
deshyin shekpa jikpa tamché yongsu dralwé lha la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata Deity of Total Fearlessness.
Through this, bless the offerings so that they become an inexhaustible source of great bliss
and whatever the objects of focus desire.
ho, sur chö döyön druk denpa
Hoḥ. This sur offering to delight the six senses
rang rang yi la gang dö trin
Arises as clouds of whatever individuals desire,
namsa barnang künkhyab ching
Filling the sky and earth and everywhere in between.
dzemé dewé terchen di
This vast and inexhaustible treasure of bliss
rik druk nyingjé drön nam dang
I offer to guests worthy of compassion among the six classes,
khyepar chok dir gyuwa yi
And especially to those who frequent this region,
gek rik lenchak shakhön chen
Those obstacle-makers and vengeful karmic creditors,
za dré shi shé dré pomo
Ravenous spirits, deadly male and female ghouls,
né dak rim dak gökhé dak
Controllers of sickness, infection, and loss of livestock,
yul dré bé dré nyé dü dré
Local spirits, accursed demons, and ghosts of former kin,
chak dang jungpé dushé kyi
Those who, out of attachment and avarice,
mi dang nor chir drangwa am
Pursue riches and human beings,
trakdok dangwé sampa yi
Those who inflict all manner of harm
nöpa tsompé rik kün dang
Based on thoughts of envy and hostility,
driza sipa barmé dro
Gandharvas and beings of the intermediate state,
tok gong sé rak yidak rik
Famishing spirits, serak spirits2 and hungry ghosts,
sipar lé kyi wang songwé
Those controlled by karma in conditioned existence,
natsok zukchen küntugyu
Who roam about in a variety of guises,
natsok zechen yong tsolchen
Searching for all manner of foods,
samjor natsok midrawa
And, through various thoughts and deeds,
nöpa natsok küntu jor
Constantly engaging in various forms of harm—
wangchen wang chung natsokpé
To all those harmful influences, obstacle-makers and elemental spirits,
dön gek jungpo tamché la
Including those of major and those of minor power,
pam gyal choklhung mepa yi
Without any partiality or notions of loss and gain,
dögu mizé ter du ngo
I dedicate an inexhaustible treasury of all that might be wished for.
yi la chi dö tob gyur né
Once you have received whatever it is that you desire,
nö tsé duktsub kün shyi shying
May all your savagery and violence be assuaged,
changchub sem dangden gyur chik
And may you come to possess bodhicitta.
sok la lom shying la la jab
May those who prey on vitality and souls,
nor la ngam shying zé la ku
Those who crave riches and hunt provisions,
pal la nöpé jungpo nam
As well as elemental spirits who impair magnificence
chöjin di yi tsim gyur chik
All be satisfied by this offering and generosity.
tserab lenchak jang gyur chik
May all karmic debts from former lives be dissolved.
shakhön dikdrib dak gyur chik
May misdeeds, obscurations and bonds of vengeance be purified.
dukngal nyönmong shyi gyur chik
May suffering and mental afflictions be pacified.
dak gi chöjin di ngöpé
Through dedicating these, my offerings and my gifts,
jungpö tsok kün tsim gyur né
May all the hosts of elemental demons be satisfied,
dak dang semchen tamché kün
And thereby may I and all sentient beings
dümin chi dang né lasok
Be freed from all forms of harm and adversity,
galkyen kün dangdral gyur chik
Such as untimely death and ill health.
ré shying chak nam tendu tsim
May all our hopes and wishes be enduringly fulfilled.
lü dön né dön lasok drol
May we escape demons that prey on body and location.
dödön barché malü shyi
May all that obstructs our desired aims be pacified.
tashi delek püntsok shok
And may auspiciousness and happiness abound!
nyamnyi changchub sem kyi tü
Through the power of bodhicitta equality,
nöja nöjé tamché kün
May all the objects and agents of harm
chöying dewa chenpé ngang
Attain awakening inseparably from the state
yermé sangye tobpar shok
Of great bliss within the dharmadhātu.
tamché namkha dzö shyindu
Just like the inexhaustible treasury of the sky,
longchö chepa mepar shok
May these enjoyments be unending.
tsöpa mé ching tse mepar
Without resorting to conflict or violence,
rangwang du ni chöpar shok
May all experience independent power.
zakmé döyön drukden la
Having savoured without attachment
shyenmé tsul du longchö né
The immaculate pleasures of the six senses,
dakmé nyampé dön tok té
May all realize the meaning of selfless equality
kyemé chöku tobpar shok
And attain the unborn dharmakāya.
dak gi sönam tob dak dang
Through the pure strength of my own merits,
deshyin shekpé jin tob dang
The force of the tathāgatas' blessings,
chö kyi ying kyi tob kyi su
And the power of the dharmadhātu,
semchen nam la pendokpé
May whatever aspirations exist
dön nam gangdak sampa kün
Directed toward the benefit of beings,
jikten kham ni malü dir
In this and every other worldl realms—
dedak tamché chi rikpar
All of them, no matter what their kind—
tokpa mepar jung gyur chik
Be fulfilled without any hindrance.
From the words of Guru Rinpoche:
kham sum dakpé shying
The three realms are a pure land,
si sum tukjé drön
The three planes of existence guests worthy of compassion,
malü khyabpé zé
And sustenance pervades everywhere without exception.
chönyi tokpé tü
Through the power of realizing the nature of reality,
mizé ter du ngo
I dedicate all this as an inexhaustible treasure.
Without straying from this visualization and intention, recite the mantra:
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Recite this as many times as possible.
om mani pemé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Recite this at least a hundred times.
Verses from the sūtras:
jinpa gyachen gyurpa di yi tü
Through the power of this vast act of generosity
drowé nang né rangjung sangye shok
May we spontaneously attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings.
ngöntsé gyalwa nam kyi madralwé
All those who were not liberated by the buddhas of the past,
kyegu didak jinpé drol gyur chik
Through this act of generosity, may they be liberated.
Recite this aspiration and continue with:
jungpo gangdak dir ni lhak gyur tam
May all the spirits gathered in this place,
sa am önté barnang khö kyang rung
Be it on the earth or in the water or in the sky,
kyegu nam la taktu jam jé ching
Always show goodwill and kindness to all beings,
nyin dang tsen du chö la chöpar shok
And practise Dharma day and night.

gek rik tongtrak gyechu shyiwa dang
May the 80,000 classes of obstructing forces all be pacified,
mitün nöpé kyen dang dralwa dang
May we be freed from all forms of adversity and harm,
tünpa drub ching pünsum tsokpa yi
And may all our circumstances be favourable and perfect in every way—
tashi dé kyang dengdir delek shok
Through this auspiciousness, may there be happiness and well-being here and now!

Recite these and other such verses of auspiciousness.
Since this is an extraordinary method for completing the transcendent perfections and pacifying
obstacles anyone and everyone should take it to heart. For the beings of this evil age
in particular, when covetousness and craving are on the rise, spirits and demons are prevalent,
humans and livestock are subject to attacks, and resources are constantly under threat,
this is a time of roaming through various lands in search of food and wealth, an age
of widespread disease and infection, as well as depletion of livestock; it is a period of
inauspicious dreams; a time when wild dogs and vermin do harm, and evil spirits cause injury
and alarm. Practising this in such circumstances will pacify obstacles and ordeals. When
undertaken out of compassion, whether regularly or on occasion, it will avert death, dispel
sickness and harmful influences, safeguard provisions,3 increase favourable conditions,
perfect the accumulations and so on. There are many other advantages too, both for oneself
and others, in the short and long term, but there is no need to elaborate further. Simply
practise it assiduously.

This was written with a beneficial intention by Mipham in the Power Cave of Gyatö on the eighteenth
of the tenth month, the morning after the dream that was its inspiration. May it bring
virtue. Maṅgalam.

Note that the text may be adapted for a ransoming ritual (glud), by changing the text to "This
ransom torma to delight the six senses..." Śubham.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.
↑ A note says that it is good to mix in a little samaya substance that liberates upon taste,
if you have any.↑ Serak (bse rag) spirits are said to steal the nutrition of food and the
essence of wealth.↑ sris rme. The translation of this obscure phrase is tentative. Note also
that some editions of the text read sris rmi.