Great Clouds of First-Portion Offerings for Prosperity
by Mipham Rinpoche

Bless food, drink and the necessities of life, whatever is suitable; mentally one should offer
them in this way to the Great Lion Gesar and hosts of terma lords and wermas. And then:
om ah hung, dün gyi namkhar dütsi trin kar ü
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ! Before me in the sky, amidst a white cloud of nectar
chayang sam pel yishyin norbu ni
Is the wish-fulfilling jewel who increases prosperity,
gesar dralhé gyalpo chenpo la
Gesar, great king of the dralas,
magyal lasok terdak wermé kor
Surrounded by Magyal and the rest, terma lords and wermas.

zatung jorpa khogü yojé tsok
This great gathering of the necessities of life, all that one could ever need of food, drink
and wealth,
yeshe dütsi dögü jungné su
As a source of the wisdom nectar fulfilling all that one desires,
jingyi labpé chöpa dampa di
This sublime and blessed offering
kyechok norbu khor dangché la bul
We offer to you, Supreme Being, Norbu Dradül Tsal, together with your retinue;

nangsi malü dribmé saler zik
You see clearly and distinctly the whole of phenomenal existence without exception;
chok men barmé drowa kün la tsé
Whether high or low, or in between, you hold all beings with your love.
dödön yishyin norbü tsul tsolwa
Like a wish-fulfilling jewel, you grant all of our desires.
yishyin rekong wermé tsok la tö
To your hosts of wermas, fulfillers of wishes, we offer praise.

tukjé gong shik tuden dralé jé
Think of us with compassion, lord of the mighty dralas,
lumé yungdrung norbü tuk long né
From the depth of your infallible and steadfast jewel-like wisdom mind,
ma yang zé nor dögü char chenpö
With a great shower of whatever we might desire of prosperity, abundance, food and wealth,
rewé shingta yongsu kangwar dzö
May you fulfil completely all our hopes and expectations!

Combine this with offerings of tea and so on. Wherever you might be staying, whether at home
or abroad, if you wish for food, wealth and possessions, through the auspicious connection
of reciting this practice every day or on specific occasions, you will acquire the four
treasures of longevity, glory, wealth and prosperity, fulfilling all your wishes and requirements.
This was composed spontaneously on the morning of the fourteenth day of the twelfth
month during the Water Monkey year (1872) by ‘The One Named Dhīḥ’, Mipham Rinpoche. Maṅgalaṃ!

| Translated by Ane Tsöndrü, Rigpa Translations.