Offering to the Nāgas of Gangtok
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

ram yam kham | om ah hung
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
chötor gyi bak tsok drima tamché sel
All impurities in the offering tormas are eliminated,
rang rang gi tündzé zé mishepar gyur
And they become an inexhaustible supply of whatever each one desires.
kyé, gyatso chenpö ting shé na
Kyai. In the depths of the great ocean
podrang shyalmé nyam  gawar
In the immense and delightful palace
lu yi gyalpo dungkyong ni
Is Śaṅkhapāla, king of the nāgas,
kudok kar la özer bar
White in colour and blazing with light rays,
kutö lhadzé rinchen gyen
His upper body adorned with divine fabric and jewels,
kumé drul juk gyatsor rol
His lower body has the tail of a serpent,
chak nyi norbu öbar nam
And his two hands hold a gleaming jewel.
drul gö dengka dün gyi dzé
He is adorned by the hoods of seven serpents.
yön du tsuk na öbar ngo
To his left is Crest of Blazing Light, bluish green in colour,
chaluk yab dra ter bum nam
With the same dress as her male counterpart and holding a treasure vase.
khor du lunyen sadak kor
They are surrounded by a retinue of nāga and nyen earth lords.
dir shek ten la shyuk su sol
Come now, take your place in this support, we pray.
khyé la gyepé chöpa ni
We present these offerings to delight you:
lu men lu nor nyerchik dang
Nāga medicine, the twenty-one nāga riches,
chenzik korcha natsok dang
Splendid gifts and various forms of donation,
kar ngar o chab nyerchö sok
The whites, the sweets, milk, water and other sensory delights,
darzab rinchen jönshing zang
Fine silk, jewels, excellent trees,
trü dzing kyetsal lasokpa
Bathing pools, pleasure gardens and the like—
döyön khogü chöpa dang
Offerings of every form of sensory stimulant.
khyepar ngak dang tingdzin gyi
And especially, wish-granting jewels
trulpé norbu sampel sok
Created through the power of mantra and meditation.
dögu jungwé ten du bul
All this we offer as a support for the arising of all that is desirable.
dakchak khor dang chepa yi
We confess whatever we and those around us
jawa chöpa nyepa lé
Have done in error and as misdeeds
pok tuk dram truk gyurpa shak
That might have caused offence or upset.
deshek luwang gyalpo yi
May the king of mighty, bliss-gone nāgas
khyé la taktu sung kyob dzö
Always offer shelter and protection,
né dang nöpa shyi gyur chik
Pacify all sickness and causes of harm.
pema jungné ka shyindu
In accordance with the words of Padmākara,
bé né nöchü sung kyob dang
May you guard the environment and inhabitants of this hidden land,
shyi dang tashi delek shing
Bring peace, good fortune, happiness and wellbeing
paljor longchö gyepar dzö
And cause wealth and resources to increase.
ten dang tendzin jindak ché
May the teachings flourish and holders and patrons of the teachings
gelek palyön pelwar shok
Enjoy ever greater virtue, excellence and glory.

Chökyi Lodrö wrote this on the 22nd day of the second month during the conjunction of Venus
and Revatī.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sgang thog gi klu mchod/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi
blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 11: 535–536