Offering the Eight Auspicious Substances and Seven Emblems of Royalty
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

Eight Auspicious Substances
ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the goddess of beauty Prabhāvatī offered a mirror
zuk kyi lhamo ö chang mé melong pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché melong
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of the mirror, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings,
especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

melong yeshe gyatso chenpo yi
This mirror, through the great ocean of wisdom,
yeshe gyatso chok tu dak gyur té
Is purified to become supreme, ocean-like wisdom,
namdak chö la tokmé longchö pé
And phenomena, in their inherent purity, are experienced without obstruction,
tashi dé kyang dribpa dak gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may obscurations be purified!
ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the elephant offered the protective medicine bezoar
langpo ché sung gi men gi wam pulpé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché gi wam
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of bezoar, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially
the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

gi wam duk sum jompa né kyi men
Bezoar, the healing medicine that overcomes three kinds of poison,
men chok chönyi rabtu tok gyur né
Becomes the supreme medicine, thorough understanding of dharmatā,
nyönmong zukngu mepar gyurpa yi
Which eliminates the distress of the destructive emotions.
tashi dé kyang dukngal shyi gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may suffering be pacified!

ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the farmer’s daughter Sujata offered curds
shyingpé bumo lekkyé mé shyo pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming them into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché shyo
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of curds, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially
the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

shyo ni kün gyi nyingpor gyurpa té
These curds are transformed into the essence of all.
nyingpo namdak yeshe nam tok té
By realizing the wisdoms that are the heart of all and utterly pure,
yön ten kün gyi ying su gyurpa yi
It is transformed into the space of all enlightened qualities.
tashi dé kyang duk sum shyi gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may the three poisons be pacified!

ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the brahmin Kuṇḍali offered durva grass
dramzé kundali tsa durwa pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché durwa
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of the durwa grass, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings,
especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

durwé tsé ni pelwar jepa té
Through this durva grass, lifespan is increased,
dorjé sempé tsé ni rab drub né
Having perfectly attained the longevity of Vajrasattva,
nyönmong kyeshi gyün ché gyurpa yi
The destructive emotions no longer arise but cease.
tashi dé ni tsé yang pel gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may life be increased!

ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the tree goddess Prabhāvatī offered a bilva fruit
shing gi lhamo ö chang mé shing tok bilwa pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché bilwa
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of the bilva fruit, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings,
especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

bilwa gyukyen drebur chepé chö
This bilva represents causes, conditions and the fruit,
jikten jikten depé chöpa kün
All activity, both worldly and transcendent,
changchub nyingpo chok tu gyurpa yi
Becomes the supreme essence of enlightenment.
tashi dé kyang dön kün drub gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may our every aim be accomplished!

ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the king of the gods Indra offered a conch shell spiralling to the right
lhé wangpo gyajin gyi dungkar po yé su khyilwa pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché dung
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of the conch, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings,
especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

dung ni chö kyi dra nam drokpé tsul
The conch, which resounds with the sound of Dharma,
yeshe gyatso nyi du dak gyur té
Is purified into an ocean of wisdom,
chö nam manor yongsu tönpa yi
Revealing all things perfectly and without error.
tashi dé kyang tsikwang tob gyur chik
Though this auspiciousness may we gain power over language!

ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the earth goddess Sthāvarā offered vermilion
sé lhamo tenmé litri pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
trashipé dzé su jingyi labpa deshyindu
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché litri
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of the vermillion, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings,
especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

litri marpo wang gi rangshyin té
This vermilion, which has the nature of magnetizing
chö nam malü wang du dü né kyang
And bringing all phenomena under our control,
chö kyi gyal si rabtu ten gyurpé
Transforms into an exceedingly stable kingdom of Dharma.
tashi dé kyang chö si ten gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness, may the domain of Dharma be secure!

ngön yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la
Just as in the past the Lord of Secrets Vajrapāṇi offered mustard seeds
sangwé dakpo chak na dorjé yungkar pulwé
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
tashi dé kyang dön kün drub gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may our every aim be accomplished!
deng dir yang rabtu nepar jepé ten nam dang dak dang jinpé dakpö tso jé semchen tamché yungkar
gi dzé la ten né shintu trashipar gyur chik
Through this substance of the mustard seed, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings,
especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.

yungkar dorjé rik té tamché du
These mustard seeds, which belong to the vajra family,
gek nam malü jompar jepa yi
And have the perfect qualities of power and strength
tutob yönten pün sum tsok gyurpé
To destroy entirely all hindrances and obstructing forces.
tashi dé kyang gek nam shyi gyur chik
Through this auspiciousness may all hindrances be overcome!
With this, offer the eight substances.
Seven Emblems of Royalty
If, on occasion, you wish to practise more elaborately, recite the following:
lhadzé lé jé tewa shintu dum
Made from divine materials, its hub a perfect sphere,
tsib tongden ching mukhyü rab nyam zang
With a thousand spokes and a perfectly even rim,
dangwé dra lé nampar gyal gyurpé
It brings total victory over hostile opponents—
khorlo rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious wheel!

rinchen ngowo lhadzé baidura
The jewel, in essence, is the divine substance lapis lazuli,
küntu paktsé tsam du nangjé ching
Shining its brilliant light for a league in every direction,
drimé nyinmo jishyin tsen deshyin
As immaculate and bright by night as during the day—
norbu rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious jewel!

zuk dzé ta na duk ching tsul zang ma
Beautiful, captivating, and noble in manner,
pakpé dok lek jam shying dri chokden
With excellent complexion, gentle and perfumed,
yi ong dö gü rekja dang denpé
Lovely to behold, she inspires intense desire—
tsünmo rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious queen!

gangyang gyalwa mutik dang denpé
Victorious over all, and radiant as a pearl,
ser sok mangpo tub la pulwa tar
Like one who offers plentiful gold and the like to the Buddha,
zöden tsungpé khyimdak norden pa
A householder whose wealth is as vast as the earth itself—
lönpo rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious minister!

yenlak tamché lekkyé sa la ni
With every limb perfectly developed,
rabné gangchen ri dra langpo ché
Firm and steady, like a mountain, on the ground,
gyalpo la ö kha la rab drolwé
Fit for a king, and perfectly unimpeded in the air—
langpo rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious elephant!

toreng dü su chok nam malüpé
Capable of travelling everywhere without exception,
sa nam kor shying laryang dok jé ching
Of galloping to the ends of the world and back again,
majé drinpé pu tar yi ongwé
With a coat as beautiful as the throat of a peacock—
tachok rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious horse!

dro dang dok dang kün né ong gyurpé
Conqueror of the advancing and retreating forces,
malü düpung jompar jepa la
The many hordes of Mara, who come from every direction,
pa ten jorpé pung dang chepa yi
Accompanied by your great armies, brave and steadfast—
makpön rinchen dampé tashi shok
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious general!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2011. Revised and updated for Lotsawa House, 2021.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. "rdzas brgyad sna bdun sbyin tshul/" in gsung 'bum/_mkhyen
brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok: Gonpo Tseten, 1977–1980. Vol. 16: 249–251