White and Red Sur Offerings That Are Very Easy to Apply
by Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa

Homage to the Guru!
White Sur
When performing the offering in the morning (i.e., the white sur) mix into clean roasted flour
the three whites, the three sweets, various kinds of jewels and medicinal substances. When
performing the offering in the evening (i.e., the red sur), mix in some meat and alcohol
and different kinds of food. If making the offering mainly in order to benefit beings in
the intermediate state, it is vital to mix in some sacred liberation-upon-taste substances.
Put the sur substances thus prepared on the fire, sprinkle them with cleansing water,
and say the following:
dak dang khanyam semchen nam
I and all beings, infinite as space,
kyabyul kündü chenrezik
Go for refuge to you, Protector Avalokiteśvara,
gönpo khyö la kyab su chi
Embodiment of all refuge objects.
khyö ni changchub tukkyé tar
Just as you roused bodhicitta,
khakhyab drowa dralwé chir
So I, in order to free beings through all of space,
sangye nyurdu tobpar ja
Will swiftly reach awakening!

semchen malü dé dangden
May all beings have happiness,
dukngal tamché kündral né
Be freed from all suffering,
chok gi dé lé dral mepé
Never be parted from true happiness,
nyering tangnyom la né shok
And abide in unbiased equanimity.
Thereby train in refuge, bodhicitta, and the four immeasurables.

rangnyi kechik chenrezik
In an instant I become the wisdom form
khasarpani ku ru gyur
Of Avalokiteśvara, Khasarpaṇi.
om mani pemé hum hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Recite this mantra a few times.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
(Three times.)
sekdzé ah hung sum lé
From oṃ āḥ hūṃ, the burnt substances
yeshe chötrin trowar gyur
Become clouds of wisdom offerings, flowing out.

lumé könchok nam sum la
To the undeceiving Three Jewels
sekdzé dütsi chöpa bul
I offer these amṛta burnt substances.
dak dang semchen kyab tu sol
Please protect me and all beings!

lama yidam khandro la
To the gurus, yidams, and sky-goers
sekdzé dütsi chöpa bul
I offer these amṛta burnt substances.
dak dang semchen jingyi lob
Please bless me and all beings!

chökyong yullha shyidak la
To the Dharma protectors, local deities, and landlords
sekdzé dütsi chöpa bul
I offer these amṛta burnt substances.
barché sol la trinlé drub
Dispel obstacles and accomplish the activities!

pamé tsor jé semchen la
To all beings, with my parents foremost among them,
sekdzé dütsi di ngöpé
I dedicate these amṛta burnt substances.
drib dak tsok nyi dzokpar shok
May their obscurations be purified and the two accumulations perfected!

bardor nepé semchen la
To all beings in the intermediate state
sekdzé dütsi di ngöpé
I dedicate these amṛta burnt substances.
trulnang dukngal shyiwar shok
May their delusion and suffering be pacified!

lenchak dragek tamché la
To all karmic creditors, foes, and obstructors
sekdzé dütsi di ngöpé
I dedicate these amṛta burnt substances.
bulön shakhön jangwar shok
May all debts and grudges be purified!

ngön gyi gyalwa tamché kyi
Just as all the victors of the past
jinpé dön nam drubpa shyin
Accomplished their aims through generosity,
chönyi namdak denpa yi
By the pure truth of dharmatā
mönlam tamché drubpar shok
May all these aspirations be fulfilled!
Say that. Then recite:
nama sarva tathagata avalokité om sambhara sambhara hung
namaḥ sarvatathāgatāvalokite oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ
Recite that seven times, and then recite the six syllables and the kaṃkani mantra.
The six syllables:
om mani pemé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
The kaṃkani mantra:
namo ratna trayaya | om kamkani kamkani | rotsani rotsani | trodani trodani | trasani trasani
|tradihana tradihana | sarva karma param paranimé sarva satva nentsa soha
namo ratnatrayāya | oṃ kaṃkani kaṃkani | rocani rocani | troṭani troṭani | trāsani trāsani |
pratihana pratihana | sarvakarmaparaṃparāṇime sarvasattvānāñca svāhā
dak gi sampé tob dak dang
Through the power of my intentions,
deshyin shekpé jin tob dang
The power of the tathāgatas’ generosity,
chö kyi ying kyi tob nam kyi
And the power of dharmadhātu,
pakpa nam la chöpa dang
Whatever plans or intentions there may be

semchen kün la pen dak chir
To venerate the noble ones
dön nam gangdak sampa kün
And bring benefit to all beings—
dedak tamché chirikpa
May all of them, whatever they may be,
jikten kham ni malüpar
In all worlds and all realms, without exception,
tokpa mepar jungwar shok
Be fulfilled without hindrance!
With that, proclaim the power of truth:
chö nam tamché gyu lé jung
All things arise from causes.
dé gyu deshyin shekpé sung
Those causes were taught by the Tathāgata.
dé la gokpa gang yinpa
The cessation of those causes
gejong chenpö diké sung
The great śramana thus explained:

dikpa chiyang mija shying
Commit not a single misdeed,
gewa pünsum tsokpar ché
Cultivate a wealth of virtue,
rang gi sem ni yongsu dul
Completely tame your mind—
di ni sangye tenpa yin
This is Buddha’s teaching.

gewa di yi kyewo kün
By this virtue, may all beings
sönam yeshe tsok sak té
Gather the accumulations of merit and wisdom,
sönam yeshe lé jungwa
And attain the two sublime kāyas
dampa ku nyi tobpar shok
Resulting from that merit and wisdom!
Reciting that, practise the giving of the Dharma. Then dedicate the virtue and make whatever
aspirations are suitable.

Red Sur
Now, for the profound red sur offering to be practised regularly as a ransom for death: in the
evening, add meat, blood, and different kinds of grains and medicinal substances to the
mixture, and burn it. Recite whatever refuge and bodhicitta prayers are suitable. Then say:
rangnyi chenrezik su sal
I am vividly present as Avalokiteśvara.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
(Three times.)
sur chö döyön ngadenpa
This sur offering of the five sense pleasures
khakhyab wangpo tsim jé gyur
Satisfies the senses of all beings pervading space.
Recite the Sambhara mantra three times:
nama sarva tathagata avalokité om sambhara sambhara hum
namaḥ sarvatathāgatāvalokite oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ
om, sha trak dru men jarwa yi
Oṃ. This sur offering of the five sense pleasures,
sur chö döyön ngaden di
Mixed with meat, blood, grains, and medicines,
dakchak pönlob khor ché kyi
I dedicate to Yama, Lord of Death, who cuts short
tsé dang sok la barchö pé
The lives and vitality of us teachers, students, and retinue.

chidak shinjé mamö dé
I dedicate it also to the hordes of mamos
jungpo shaza nöjin tsok
And the flocks of jungpos, flesh-eaters, and yakṣas,
sinpo driza yidak sok
To the ogres, scent-eaters, hungry spirits and the like,
marung dukpé sem changwa
And to those with savage, evil intentions.

khor dang chepa kün la ngo
I dedicate this to you all, together with your retinues!
gyé shing nyé né rab tsim té
May it please and delight you and completely satisfy you,
bulön lenchak jangwa dang
Such that karmic dues and debts are cleared away
trö shing trukpé sem kün shyi
And all aggression and hostility appeased.

dümin chiwé jikpa dang
May we be freed from the fear of untimely death,
né dang nöpa kün lé tar
From all illness, and all harm.
pen dang dewé sem kyé né
May benevolence and bliss dawn within,
tashi pünsum tsokpar shok
Bringing an abundance of perfect auspiciousness!
Recite the six syllables and then make dedications and aspirations. It is said that by making
this red sur offering, untimely death will be averted and temporary obstacles pacified.
The white sur comes from the Tersar liturgies for The Great Compassionate One and the red
sur comes from The Guru’s Heart Practice, Dispeller of All Obstacles.

Elaborate Aspiration
If you wish to make a slightly more elaborate aspiration after dedicating the sur offering,
you may recite the following:
ho, chöying nampar dakpa yi
Hoḥ. The dharmadhātu is completely pure;
chöchen gyundré luwamé
Yet relatively, cause and effect are undeceiving.
ten ching drelwar jungwa yi
So, by the power of this gathering of virtue beyond measure,
gé tsok pakmé di yi tü
Which has occurred as dependent arising,
gyalwé tenpa dar gyur chik
May the teachings of the victorious ones flourish!

damchö yün tu nepa dang
May the sacred Dharma long remain
gendün chö kyi tsowar shok
And may the saṅgha be sustained by the Dharma!
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
May the lifespans of the gurus remain firm,
gong shyé malü drubpar shok
And may all their visions be accomplished!

yidam nyen ching drubpa dang
May we practise the yidam until accomplishment,
ngödrub nam nyi tobpar shok
And thereby attain the two siddhis!
mamo khandrö khönpa jang
May enmity with the mamos and sky-goers be purified!
tsawa sum gyi tukdam kang
May our heart samaya with the three roots be mended!

sungmé kaché minjung shying
May we not incur punishments from the protectors!
dak dang tayé semchen gyi
May all negative karma, misdeeds, and obscurations,
tserab tokma mepa né
Accumulated by myself and the infinity of beings
sakpé lé ngen dikdrib dak
Since time without beginning, all be purified!

kyen ngen barché shyiwa dang
May adverse conditions and obstacles be pacified,
sönam yeshe tsok dzok shok
And the accumulations of merit and wisdom perfected!
nyalwé tsadrang dukngal shyi
May the torments of heat and cold among hell beings be pacified!
yidak trekom mé gyur chik
May hungry ghosts be freed from hunger and thirst!

düdro jikpa ché lé tar
May animals be freed from terror!
lha nam chöchö pam tungdral
May gods practise the Dharma and not plunge to lower states!
lhamin tabtsö shyi gyur chik
May the strife of demi-gods be appeased!
mi nam chuwo shyi lé drol
May humans be liberated from the four streams!1

bardö semchen rang ngotrö
May beings in the intermediate state recognize their true nature!
dorna kyegu tamchen kün
In short, may all sentient beings
ngendrö jik lerab tar né
Be completely freed from the terrors of the lower realms
lamé changchub né tob shok
And attain unsurpassable awakening!

dir né lüchen tamché kün
May all beings abiding in this place
tsering nemé tünkyen jor
Live long, in good health, and with prosperity!
lé dang jawa tamché kün
May all our work and actions
parchin druk la jar té chö
Be performed as the six pāramitās!

takpar gewa pelwar shok
May virtue ever increase!
dak gi jawa ché tra kün
May all my actions, large and small,
gewé lé la juk shyin tu
Be virtuous and likewise—
namkar sherab lé tsampé
Infused with compassion guided by pure knowledge—
shyen la nyingjé pendé jin
May they bring benefit and bliss to others!

gewa der né samten dang
Living by such virtue, may I persevere
dé yi tab la bepé tsön
In meditation and its methods.
gang jé tsul la mindok ching
May I not be discouraged or ever turn away.
drin mi drin khu nam lé zö
May I have patience towards all, whether they be grateful or not.

bakyö detar ché shyindu
Practising carefully in that way,
lo gya dak kyang tsowar shok
May I live for a hundred years.
chenrezik kyi mönlam shyin
Just like the aspirations of Avalokiteśvara,
dak gi mönlam drubpar shok
May my own aspirations be fulfilled!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2019 (trans. Laura Dainty, ed. Libby Hogg).

Source: mchog gyur gling pa. "gsur mchod dkar dmar shin tu khyer bde" In mchog gling gter gsar.
BDRC W22642. 9: 359–368. Paro: Lama Pema Tashi, 1982–1986. http://tbrc.org/link?RID=O01CT0001|O01CT00014CZ197306$W22642
↑   These are the four streams of suffering that afflict human beings, namely birth, aging,
illness, and death. Alternatively, they are explained as being the streams of ignorance, the
afflictions, karma, and suffering.